
## SIEM (Security Information and Event Management)

 - A SIEM parses network traffic and log data from multiple sensors, appliances, and hosts and normalizes the information to standard field types. 

### Correlation

 - The SIEM can then run correlation rules on indicators extracted from the data sources to detect events that should be investigated as potential incidents. You can also filter or query the data based on the type of incident that has been reported.
 - Correlation means interpreting the relationship between individual data points to diagnose incidents of significance to the security team. 
 - A SIEM correlation rule is a statement that matches certain conditions. 
 - These rules use logical expressions, such as AND and OR, and operators, such as == (matches), < (less than), > (greater than), and in (contains). 

### Sensors  
 - A sensor is a network tap or port mirror that performs packet capture and intrusion detection. 
 - One of the key uses of a SIEM is to aggregate data from multiple sensors and log sources, but it might also be appropriate to configure dashboards that show output from a single sensor or source host.

## Trend Analysis

 - Trend analysis is the process of detecting patterns or indicators within a data set over a time series and using those patterns to make predictions about future events. 
 - A trend is difficult to spot by examining each event in a log file. Instead, you need software to visualize the incidence of types of event and show how the number or frequency of those events changes over time. 
 - Trend analysis can apply to frequency, volume, or statistical deviation.

## Metadata

 - Metadata is the properties of data as it is created by an application, stored on media, or transmitted over a network. 
 - A number of metadata sources are likely to be useful when investigating incidents, because they can establish timeline questions, such as when and where, as well as containing other types of evidence. 

## Netflow/IPFIX

 - A flow collector is a means of recording metadata and statistics about network traffic rather than recording each framework.
 - Network traffic and flow data may come from a wide variety of sources (or probes), such as switches, routers, firewalls, web proxies, and so forth.
 - A particular traffic flow can be defined by packets sharing the same characteristics, referred to as keys, such as IP source and destination addresses and protocol type. 
 - A selection of keys is called a flow label, while traffic matching a flow label is called a flow record. 

## sFlow

 - ses sampling to measure traffic statistics at any layer of the OSI model for a wider range of protocol types than the IP-based Netflow. 
 - sFlow can also capture the entire packet header for samples. 

# Appropriate Data Sources for Incident Response

1.True or false? The "first responder" is whoever first reports an incident to the CIRT.
 > False—the first responder would be the member of the CIRT to handle the report.

2.You need to correlate intrusion detection data with web server log files. What component must you deploy to collect IDS alerts in a SIEM?
 > You need to deploy a sensor to send network packet captures or intrusion detection alerts to the SIEM.

3.Which software tool is most appropriate for forwarding Windows event logs to a Syslog-compatible server?
 > NXlog is designed as a multi-platform logging system.

4.A technician is seeing high volumes of 403 Forbidden errors in a log. What type of network appliance or server is producing these logs?
 > 403 Forbidden is an HTTP status code, so most likely a web server. Another possibility is a web proxy or gateway.

5.What type of data source(s) would you look for evidence of a suspicious MTA in?
 > A Message Transfer Agent (MTA) is an SMTP server. You might inspect an SMTP log or the Internet header metadata of an email message.

6.You are supporting a SIEM deployment at a customer's location. The customer wants to know whether flow records can be ingested. What type of data source is a flow record?
 > Flow records are generated by NetFlow or IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) probes. A flow record is data that matches a flow record, which is a particular combination of keys (IP endpoints and protocol/port types).
