## Incident Eradication and Recovery

**Eradication of malware or other intrusion mechanisms and recovery from the attack will involve several steps:**
 - Reconstitution of affected systems—either remove the malicious files or tools from affected systems or restore the systems from secure backups/images.
 - Reaudit security controls—ensure they are not vulnerable to another attack. This could be the same attack or from some new attack that the attacker could launch through information they have gained about your network.
 - Ensure that affected parties are notified and provided with the means to remediate their own systems. 

## Quarantine

 - If mitigating techniques are not successful, or the results are uncertain, the endpoint will require careful management before being integrated back onto the network. 
 - If further evidence needs to be gathered, the best approach may be to quarantine or sandbox the endpoint or suspect process/file. 
 - This allows for analysis of the attack or tool and collection of evidence using digital forensic techniques.

## SOAR (security orchestration, automation, and response) 

 - SOAR is designed as a solution to the problem of the volume of alerts overwhelming analysts' ability to respond, measured as the mean time to respond (MTTR).
 - The basis of SOAR is to scan the organization's store of security and threat intelligence, analyze it using machine/deep learning techniques, and then use that data to automate and provide data enrichment for the workflows that drive incident response and threat hunting. 
 - It can also assist with provisioning tasks, such as creating and deleting user accounts, making shares available, or launching VMs from templates, to try to eliminate configuration errors. 
 - The SOAR will use technologies such as cloud and SDN/SDV APIs, orchestration tools, and cyberthreat intelligence (CTI) feeds to integrate the different systems that it is managing. 
 - It will also leverage technologies such as automated malware signature creation and user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) to detect threats.

 - An incident response workflow is usually defined as a playbook. 
 - A playbook is a checklist of actions to perform to detect and respond to a specific type of incident.
 - A playbook should be made highly specific by including the query strings and signatures that will detect a particular type of incident.
 - A playbook will also account for compliance factors, such as whether an incident must be reported as a breach plus when and to whom notification must be made.
 - Where a playbook is implemented with a high degree of automation from a SOAR system, it can be referred to as a runbook, though the terms are also widely used interchangeably. 
 - The aim of a runbook is to automate as many stages of the playbook as possible, leaving clearly defined interaction points for human analysis.

# Mitigation Controls

What low-level networking feature will facilitate a segmentation-based approach to containing intrusion events?
 > Network segmentation is primarily achieved by virtual LANs (VLANs). A VLAN can be isolated from the rest of the network.

2.What configuration change could you make to prevent misuse of a developer account?
 > Disable the account.

3.Following a loss of critical IP exfiltrated from the local network to a public cloud storage network, you decide to implement a type of outbound filtering system. Which technology is most suitable for implementing the filter?
 > This task is suited to data loss prevention (DLP), which can block the transfer of tagged content over unauthorized channels.

4.A threat actor gained access to a remote network over a VPN. Later, you discover footage of the user of the hacked account being covertly filmed while typing their password. What type of endpoint security solution might have prevented this breach?
 > A mobile device management (MDM) suite can prevent use of the camera function of a smartphone.

5.True or false? SOAR is intended to provide wholly automated incident response solutions.
 > False—incident response is too complex to be wholly automated. SOAR assists the provision of runbooks, which orchestrates the sequence of response and automate parts of it, but still requires decision-making from a human responder.

6.You are investigating a client workstation that has not obtained updates to its endpoint protection software for days. On the workstation you discover thousands of executable files with random names. The local endpoint log reveals that all of them have been scanned and identified as malware. You can find no evidence of any further intrusion on the network. What is the likely motive of the threat actor?
 > This could be an offline tainted data attack against the endpoint software's identification engine.
