Notes: 

 - Configuration Management: The process through which an organization's information systems components are kept in a controlled state that meets the organization's requirements, including those for security and compliance.
 - Configuration management ensures that each component of ICT infrastructure is in a trusted state that has not diverged from its documented properties. Change control and change management reduce the risk that changes to these components could cause service disruption. 
 - Service assets are things, processes, or people that contribute to the delivery of an IT service.
 - A Configuration Item (CI) is an asset that requires specific management procedures for it to be used to deliver the service. 
 - A baseline configuration is the template of settings that a device, VM instance, or other CI was configured to, and that it should continue to match.\A configuration management system (CMS) is the tools and databases that collect, store, manage, update, and present information about CIs and their relationships.
 - Diagrams are the best way to capture the complex relationships between network elements.

# Privacy and Data Protection Controls

1.To what data state does a trusted execution environment apply data protection?

 > Data in processing/data in use.

2.You take an incident report from a user trying to access a REPORT.docx file on a SharePoint site. The file has been replaced by a REPORT.docx.QUARANTINE.txt file containing a policy violation notice. What is the most likely cause?

 > This is typical of a data loss prevention (DLP) policy replacing a file involved in a policy violation with a tombstone file.

3.You are preparing a solution overview on privacy enhancing technologies based on CompTIA Security+ syllabus objectives. You have completed notes under the following headings—which other report section do you need?

Data minimization, Anonymization, Pseudo-anonymization, Data masking, Aggregation/Banding

 > Tokenization—replacing data with a randomly-generated token from a separate token server or vault. This allows reconstruction of the original data if combined with the token vault.

# Cybersecurity Resiliency Strategies

1.You are preparing a white paper on configuration management essentials for your customers. You have the following headings already: Diagrams, Standard naming conventions, Internet protocol (IP) schema. If you are basing your paper on the ComptTIA Security+ objectives, which other topic should you cover?

 > The configuration baseline is an essential concept as it allows unauthorized change to be detected more easily and planned change to be managed more easily.

2.What are the risks of not having a documented IP schema?

 > Configuration errors are more likely, especially where complex access control lists (ACLs) and security monitoring sensor deployment is required.

3.In organizational policies, what two concepts govern change?

 > A change control process governs the way changes are requested and approved. A change management process governs the way that planned change is implemented and the way unplanned change is handled.

4.Which terms are used to discuss levels of site resiliency?

 > Hot, warm, and cold sites, referring to the speed with which a site can failover.

5.You are preparing some briefing notes on diversity strategies for cybersecurity resilience for the executive team. You have prepared sections on Technologies, Crypto, and Controls so far. What other topic do you need to cover?

 > Vendor diversity.

6.How could a deception-based cybersecurity resilience strategy return fake telemetry to a threat actor?

 > Fake telemetry means that when a threat actor runs port or host discovery scans, a spoof response is returned. This could lead the threat actor to waste time probing the port or host IP address trying to develop an attack vector that does not actually exist.
