
### Notes:
 -  A software development life cycle (SDLC) divides the creation and maintenance of software into discrete phases. There are two principal SDLCs: the waterfall model and Agile development.
    - Waterfall Model: A software development model where the phases of the SDLC cascade so that each phase will start only when all tasks identified in the previous phase are complete.
    - Agile Dev: A software development model that focuses on iterative and incremental development to account for evolving requirements and expectations.

# Deployment and Automation Concepts

1.What is secure staging?

 > Creating secure development environments for the different phases of a software development project (initial development server, test/integration server, staging [user test] server, production server).

2.What feature is essential for managing code iterations within the provisioning and deprovisioning processes?

 > Version control is an ID system for each iteration of a software product.

3.Which life cycle process manages continuous release of code to the production environment?

 > Continuous deployment.

4.How does a specially configured compiler inhibit attacks through software diversity?

 > The compiler can apply obfuscation routines to make the code difficult for a threat actor to reverse engineer and analyze for vulnerabilities.

# Secure Coding Practices

1.What type of programming practice defends against injection-style attacks, such as inserting SQL commands into a database application from a site search form?

 > Input validation provides some mitigation against this type of input being passed to an application via a user form. Output encoding could provide another layer of protection by checking that the query that the script passes to the database is safe.

2.What coding practice provides specific mitigation against XSS?

 > Output encoding ensures that strings are made safe for the context they are being passed to, such as when a JavaScript variable provides output to render as HTML. Safe means that the string does not contain unauthorized syntax elements, such as script tags.

3.You are discussing execution and validation security for DOM scripting with the web team. A junior team member wants to know if this relates to client-side or server-side code. What is your response?

 > The document object model (DOM) is the means by which a script (JavaScript) can change the way a page is rendered. As this change is rendered by the browser, it is client-side code.

4.Which response header provides protection against SSL stripping attacks?

 > HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).

5.What vulnerabilities might default error messages reveal?

 > A default error message might reveal platform information and the workings of the code to an attacker.

6.What is an SDK and how does it affect secure development?

 > A software development kit (SDK) contains tools and code examples released by a vendor to make developing applications within a particular environment (framework, programming language, OS, and so on) easier. Any element in the SDK could contain vulnerabilities that could then be transferred to the developer's code or application.

7.What type of dynamic testing tool would you use to check input validation on a web form?

 > A fuzzer can be used to submit known unsafe strings and randomized input to test whether they are made safe by input validation or not.
