# Authentication Technologies

1.True or false? When implementing smart card logon, the user's private key is stored on the smart card.

 > True. The smart card implements a cryptoprocessor for secure generation and storage of key and certificate material.

2.You are providing consultancy to a firm to help them implement smart card authentication to premises networks and cloud services. What are the main advantages of using an HSM over server-based key and certificate management services?

 > A hardware security module (HSM) is optimized for this role and so presents a smaller attack surface. It is designed to be tamper-evident to mitigate against insider threat risks. It is also likely to have a better implementation of a random number generator, improving the security properties of key material.

3.Which network access control framework supports smart cards?

 > Local logon providers, such as Kerberos, support smart cards, but this is not network access control as the device has already been allowed on the network. The IEEE 802.1X framework means that network access servers (switches, access points, and VPN gateways) can accept Extensible Authentication Protocols (EAP) credentials, but block any other type of network access. They act as pass-thru for an authentication server, which stores and validates the credentials. Some EAP types support smart card or machine authentication.

4.What is a RADIUS(Remote Authentication Dial-in User Services) client?

 > A device or server that accepts user connections, often referred to as a network access server (NAS) or as the authenticator. Using RADIUS architecture, the client does not need to be able to perform authentication itself; it performs pass-thru to an AAA(authentication, authorization and accounting) server.

 5.What is EAPoL?

 > A network access server that support 802.1X port-based access control can enable a port but allow only the transfer of Extensible Authentication Protocol over LAN (EAPoL) traffic. This allows the supplicant and authentication server to perform the authentication process, with the network access server acting as a pass-thru.

6.How does OTP protect against password guessing or sniffing attacks?

 > A one-time password mechanism generates a token that is valid only for a short period (usually 60 seconds), before it changes again.


## Biometric Authentication

 - False Rejection Rate (FRR) - where a legitimate user is not recognized.
 - False Acceptance Rate (FAR) - where an interloper is accepted. 
 - Crossover Error Rate (CER) - the point at which FRR and FAR meet. The lower the CER, the more efficient and reliable the technology.
 - Gait analysis - produces a template from human movement(locomotion).


# Biometric Authentication Concepts

 1. Apart from cost, what would you consider to be the major considerations for evaluating a biometric recognition technology?

 > Error rates (false acceptance and false rejection), throughput, and whether users will accept the technology or reject it as too intrusive or threatening to privacy.

2.How is a fingerprint reader typically implemented as hardware?

 > As a capacitive cell.

3.Which type of eye recognition is easier to perform: retinal or iris scanning?

> Iris scans are simpler.

4.What two ways can biometric technologies be used other than for logon authentication?

 > For identification based on biometric features and in continuous authentication mechanisms.



### Authentication Design

Authentication design refers to selecting a technology that meets requirements for confidentiality, integrity, and availability:
 - Confidentiality, in terms of authentication, is critical, because if account credentials are leaked, threat actors can impersonate the account holder and act on the system with whatever rights they have.
 - Integrity means that the authentication mechanism is reliable and not easy for threat actors to bypass or trick with counterfeit credentials.
 - Availability means that the time taken to authenticate does not impede workflows and is easy enough for users to operate.

 - Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) combines either an ownership-based smart card or biometric identifier with something you know, such as a password or PIN. Three-factor authentication combines all three technologies, or incorporates an additional attribute, such as location; for example, a smart card with integrated fingerprint reader. 
 
 
# Authentication Design Concepts

1.What is the difference between authorization and authentication?

 > Authorization means granting the account that has been configured for the user on the computer system the right to make use of a resource. Authorization manages the privileges granted on the resource. Authentication protects the validity of the user account by testing that the person accessing that account is who she/he says she/he is.

2.What steps should be taken to enroll a new employee on a domain network?

 > Perform checks to confirm the user's identity, issue authentication credentials securely, assign appropriate permissions/privileges to the account, and ensure accounting mechanisms to audit the user's activity.

3.True or false? An account requiring a password, PIN, and smart card is an example of three-factor authentication.

 > False—Three-factor authentication also includes a biometric-, behavioral-, or location-based element. The password and PIN elements are the same factor (something you know).

4.What methods can be used to implement location-based authentication?

 > You can query the location service running on a device or geolocation by IP. You could use location with the network, based on switch port, wireless network name, virtual LAN (VLAN), or IP subnet.
