### Logic Controllers for Embedded Systems

Embedded systems are normally based on firmware running on a programmable logic controller (PLC). These PLCs are built from different hardware and OS components than some desktop PCs. 

 - System on Chip(SOC)
   - System on chip (SoC) is a design where all these processors, controllers, and devices are provided on a single processor die (or chip). 
   - Raspberry Pi, Arduino

 - Field Programmable Gate Array(FGPA)
   - A processor that can be programmed to perform a specific function by a customer rather than at the time of manufacture.
   - The structure of the controller is not fully set at the time of manufacture. The end customer can configure the programming logic of the device to run a specific application.

 - Real-time Operating System(RTOS)
   - A type of OS that prioritizes deterministic execution of operations to ensure consistent response for time-critical tasks.
   - An RTOS should be designed to have as small an attack surface as possible. An RTOS is still susceptible to CVEs and exploits, however.

### Communication Considerations

 - Operational Technology (OT) Networks
   - A cabled network for industrial applications is referred to as an operational technology (OT) network.
   - These typically use either serial data protocols or industrial Ethernet. 
   - Industrial Ethernet is optimized for real-time, deterministic transfers. Such networks might use vendor-developed data link and networking protocols, as well as specialist application protocols.

 - Cellular Networks
   - A cellular network enables long-distance communication over the same system that supports mobile and smartphones. This is also called baseband radio(The chip and firmware in a smartphone that acts as a cellular modem), after the baseband processor that performs the function of a cellular modem.
   - Narrowband-IOT(NB-IOT): this refers to a low-power version of the Long Term Evolution (LTE) or 4G cellular standard. This means that data rates are limited (20-100 kbps), but most sensors need to send small packets with low latency, rather than making large data transfers. Narrowband also has greater penetrating power, making it more suitable for use in inaccessible locations, such as tunnels or deep within buildings
   - LTE Machine Type Communication (LTE-M): this is another low-power system, but supports higher bandwidth (up to about 1 Mbps).

 - both NB-IoT and LTE-M are designed to be compatible with 5G networks.
 - Any LTE-based cellular radio uses a subscriber identity module (SIM) card as an identifier.

### Z-Wave and Zigbee
 - Z-Wave and Zigbee are wireless communications protocols used primarily for home automation.
 - Both create a mesh network topology, using low-energy radio waves to communicate from one appliance to another.
 - Z-Wave: 
   - devices can be configured to work as repeaters to extend the network but there is a limit of four "hops" between a controller device and an endpoint. 
   - Z-Wave uses ~900 Mhz frequencies.
 - Zigbee:
   - Zigbee uses the 2.4 GHz frequency band. 
   - This higher frequency allows more data bandwidth at the expense of range compared to Z-Wave and the greater risk of interference from other 2.4 GHz radio communications. 
   - Zigbee supports more overall devices within a single network and there is no hop limit for communication between devices.

### Industria Control Systems

 - Industrial processes also prioritize availability and integrity over confidentiality.
 - Industrial control systems (ICSs) provide mechanisms for workflow and process automation.

#### SCADA(Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition)
 - A SCADA system takes the place of a control server in large-scale, multiple-site ICSs. 
 - SCADA typically runs as software on ordinary computers, gathering data from and managing plant devices and equipment with embedded PLCs, referred to as field devices. 
 - SCADA typically uses WAN communications, such as cellular or satellite, to link the SCADA server to field devices.



# Embedded System Security Implications

1.Other than cost, which factor primarily constrains embedded systems in terms of compute and networking?
 > Power—many embedded systems must operate on battery power, and changing the batteries is an onerous task, so power-hungry systems like processing and high bandwidth or long-range networking are constrained.

2.True or false? While fully customizable by the customer, embedded systems are based on either the Raspberry Pi or the Arduino design.
 > False—these are examples of one-board computers based on the system on chip (SoC) design. They are widely used in education (and leisure). Some are used for industrial applications or for proof-of-concept designs, but most embedded systems are manufactured to specific requirements.

3.What addressing component must be installed or configured for NB-IoT?
 > A LTE-based cellular radio, such as narrowband-IoT, uses a subscriber identity module (SIM) card as an identifier. This can either be installed as a plug-in card or configured as an eSIM chip on the system board or feature in a SoC design

4.You are assisting with the preparation of security briefings on embedded systems tailored to specific implementations of embedded systems. Following the CompTIA Security+ syllabus, you have created the industry-specific advice for the following sectors—which one do you have left to do?
Facilities, Industrial, Manufacturing, Energy, ???

 > Logistics—transportation of components for assembly or distribution of finished products.

5.Why should detailed vendor and product assessments be required before allowing the use of IoT devices in the enterprise?
 > As systems with considerable computing and networking functionality, these devices are subject to the same sort of vulnerabilities and exploits as ordinary workstations and laptops. It is critical to assess the vendor's policies in terms of the security design for the product and support for identifying and mitigating any vulnerabilities discovered in its use.
