
# Physical Site Security Controls

1.What physical site security controls act as deterrents?
 > Lighting is one of the most effective deterrents. Any highly visible security control (guards, fences, dogs, barricades, CCTV, signage, and so on) will act as a deterrent.

2.What use might a proximity reader be for site security?
 > One type of proximity reader allows a lock to be operated by a contactless smart card. Proximity sensors can also be used to track objects via RFID tags.

3.What are the two main options for mobile camera surveillance?
 > Robot sentries and drone/UAV-mounted cameras.

4.What physical security system provides mitigation against juice-jacking?
 > A USB data blocker can be attached to the end of a cable to prevent a charging port from trying to make a data connection.


Notes:
 - It is possible to install communications equipment within a shielded enclosure, known as a Faraday Cage. 
 - The cage is a charged conductive mesh that blocks signals from entering or leaving the area. 
 - The risk of eavesdropping from leakage of electromagnetic signals was investigated by the US DoD who defined TEMPEST (Transient Electromagnetic Pulse Emanation Standard) as a means of shielding the signals. 


### Secure Data Destruction(Physical)

 - Burning/Incineration
 - Shredding and Pulping
 - Pulverizing - By using a drilling machine
 - Degaussing - exposing a hard disk to a powerful electromagnet disrupts the magnetic pattern that stores the data on the disk surface.
 
### Data Sanitization Tools
 - Secure Erase(SE)
   - the SATA and Serial Attached SCSI (SAS) specifications have included a Secure Erase (SE) command. 
   - This command can be invoked using a drive/array utility or the hdparm Linux utility. On HDDs, this performs a single pass of zero-filling.
 - Instant Secure Erase (ISE)
   - HDDs and SSDs that are self-encrypting drives (SEDs) support another option, invoking a SANITIZE command set in SATA and SAS standards from 2012 to perform a crypto erase. 
   - Drive vendors implement this as Instant Secure Erase (ISE).


# Physical Host Security Controls

1.What policy describes preventing any type of unauthorized computing, network, or storage connection to a protected host?
 > This can be described as an air gap or secure area demilitarized zone (DMZ).

2.Where would you expect to find "hot and cold" aisles and what is their purpose?
 > This layout is used in a data center or large server room. The layout is the best way to maintain a stable temperature and reduce loss of availability due to thermal problems.

3.What security controls might be used to implement protected distribution of cabling?
 > Make conduit physically difficult to access, use alarms to detect attempts to interfere with conduit, and use shielded cabling.

4.What physical security device could you use to ensure the safety of onsite backup tapes?
 > A fireproof safe or vault.

5.Which sanitization solution meets all the following requirements: compatible with both HDD and SDD media, fast operation, and leaves the media in a reusable state?
 > A crypto erase or Instant Secure Erase (ISE) sanitizes media by encrypting the data and then erasing the cryptographic key.

6.What type of physical destruction media sanitization method is not suitable for USB thumb drives?
 > Degaussing is ineffective against all types of flash media, including thumb drives, SSDs, hybrid drives, and memory cards.
