#### Symmetric encryption is also known as private-key encryption and secure-key encryption and session-key encryption.

#### Asymmetric encryption is also known as public-key encryption.

### Hashing Algorithm
 - A cryptographic hashing algorithm produces a fixed length string from an input plaintext that can be of any length. 
 - The output can be referred to as a checksum, message digest, or hash. 
 - The function is designed so that it is impossible to recover the plaintext data from the digest (one-way) and so that different inputs are unlikely to produce the same output (a collision).

### Stream and Block Ciphers
 - Stream Cipher
   - each byte or bit of data in the plaintext is encrypted one at a time.
   - The plaintext is combined with a separate randomly generated message, calculated from the key and an initialization vector (IV). 
   - The IV ensures the key produces a unique ciphertext from the same plaintext. 
   - The keystream must be unique, so an IV must not be reused with the same key.
  
 - Block Cipher
   - In a block cipher, the plaintext is divided into equal-size blocks (usually 128-bit).
   - Each block is then subjected to complex transposition and substitution operations, based on the value of the key used.
  
# Cryptographic Ciphers
1.Which part of a simple cryptographic system must be kept secret—the cipher, the ciphertext, or the key?
 > In cryptography, the security of the message is guaranteed by the security of the key. The system does not depend on hiding the algorithm or the message (security by obscurity).

2.Considering that cryptographic hashing is one-way and the digest cannot be reversed, what makes hashing a useful security technique?
 > Because two parties can hash the same data and compare checksums to see if they match, hashing can be used for data verification in a variety of situations, including password authentication. Hashes of passwords, rather than the password plaintext, can be stored securely or exchanged for authentication. A hash of a file or a hash code in an electronic message can be verified by both parties.

3.Which security property is assured by symmetric encryption?
 > Confidentiality—symmetric ciphers are generally fast and well suited to bulk encrypting large amounts of data.

4.What are the properties of a public/private key pair?
 > Each key can reverse the cryptographic operation performed by its pair but cannot reverse an operation performed by itself. The private key must be kept secret by the owner, but the public key is designed to be widely distributed. The private key cannot be determined from the public key, given a sufficient key size.


### Digital Certificates

 - The process of issuing and verifying certificates is called public key infrastructure (PKI).

### Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS)
 - This risk from RSA key exchange is mitigated by perfect forward secrecy (PFS). 
 - PFS uses Diffie-Hellman (D-H) key agreement to create ephemeral session keys without using the server's private key. 
 - Diffie-Hellman allows A and B to derive the same shared secret just by agreeing some values that are all related by some trapdoor function. 
 - In the agreement process, they share some of them, but keep others private. 
 - PFS ensures that ephemeral keys are used to encrypt each session. These keys are destroyed after use.

### Authenticated Modes of Operation
 - Authenticated Encryption
   - A message authentication code (MAC) provides an authentication and integrity mechanism by hashing a combination of the message output and a shared secret key. 
   - The recipient can perform the same process using his or her copy of the secret key to verify the data. 
   - This type of authenticated encryption scheme is specified in a cipher suite as separate functions, such as "AES CBC with HMAC-SHA."
   - Unfortunately, the implementation of this type of authenticated mode in AES CBC is vulnerable to a type of cryptographic attack called a padding oracle attack.

 - Authenticated Encryption with Additional Data (AEAD)
   - The weaknesses of CBC arising from the padding mechanism means that stream ciphers or counter modes are strongly preferred. 
   - These use Authenticated Encryption with Additional Data (AEAD) modes of operation. 
   - In an AEAD scheme, the associated data allows the receiver to use the message header to ensure the payload has not been replayed from a different communication stream.
   - An AEAD mode is identified by a single hyphenated function name, such as AES-GCM or AES-CCM. 
   - The ChaCha20-Poly1305 stream cipher has been developed as an alternative to AES.
   
# Cryptographic Modes of Operation

1.What is the process of digitally signing a message?
 > A hashing function is used to create a message digest. The digest is then signed using the sender's private key. The resulting signature can be decrypted by the recipient using the sender's public key and cannot be modified by any other agency. The recipient can calculate his or her own digest of the message and compare it to the signed hash to validate that the message has not been altered.

2.In a digital envelope, which key encrypts the session key?
 > The recipient's public key (typically from the server's key pair).

3.True or False? Perfect forward secrecy (PFS) ensures that a compromise of a server's private key will not also put copies of traffic sent to that server in the past at risk of decryption.
 > True. PFS ensures that ephemeral keys are used to encrypt each session. These keys are destroyed after use.

4.Why does Diffie-Hellman underpin perfect forward secrecy (PFS)?
 > Diffie-Hellman allows the sender and recipient to derive the same value (the session key) from some other pre-agreed values. Some of these are exchanged, and some kept private, but there is no way for a snooper to work out the secret just from the publicly exchanged values. This means session keys can be created without relying on the server's private key, and that it is easy to generate ephemeral keys that are different for each session.

5.What type of bulk encryption cipher mode of operation offers the best security?
 > Generally, counter modes implementing Authenticated Encryption with Additional Data (AEAD). Specific examples include AES-GCM and ChaCha20-Poly1305.



####  DES/3DES, RC4 and RC4  are examples of algorithms known to have weak keys. RSA is seen as approaching the end of its usefulness, with ECC and other algorithms offering better security and performance characteristics.

#### The RC4 stream cipher and some chained block modes of operation are not as secure as other cipher modes, because they exhibit predictability. Often, it is necessary to use an additional random or pseudo-random value in conjunction with the cipher:
 - Nonce - the principal characteristic of a nonce is that it is never reused ("number used once") within the same scope (that is, with the same key value). It could be a random or pseudo-random value, or it could be a counter value.
 - Initialization vector (IV) - The principal characteristic of an IV is that it be random (or pseudo-random). There may also be a requirement that an IV not be reused (as with a nonce), but this is not the primary characteristic.
 - Salt - this is also a random or pseudo-random number or string. The term salt is used specifically in conjunction with hashing password values.

####  A man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack is typically focused on public key cryptography.
 - This attack is prevented by using secure authentication of public keys, such as associating the keys with certificates.

#### A downgrade attack can be used to facilitate a man-in-the-middle attack by requesting that the server use a lower specification protocol with weaker ciphers and key lengths.
 - For example, rather than use TLS 1.3, as the server might prefer, the client requests the use of SSL. It then becomes easier for M to forge the signature of a certificate authority that A trusts and have A trust his public key.
