# Social Engineering Techniques

1.The help desk takes a call and the caller states that she cannot connect to the e-commerce website to check her order status. She would also like a user name and password. The user gives a valid customer company name but is not listed as a contact in the customer database. The user does not know the correct company code or customer ID. Is this likely to be a social engineering attempt, or is it a false alarm?

 > This is likely to be a social engineering attempt. The help desk should not give out any information or add an account without confirming the caller's identity.

2.A purchasing manager is browsing a list of products on a vendor's website when a window opens claiming that anti-malware software has detected several thousand files on his computer that are infected with viruses. Instructions in the official-looking window indicate the user should click a link to install software that will remove these infections. What type of social engineering attempt is this, or is it a false alarm?

 > This is a social engineering attempt utilizing a watering hole attack and/or malvertising.

3.Your CEO calls to request market research data immediately be forwarded to her personal email address. You recognize her voice, but a proper request form has not been filled out and use of third-party email is prohibited. She states that normally she would fill out the form and should not be an exception, but she urgently needs the data to prepare for a round table at a conference she is attending. What type of social engineering techniques could this use, or is it a false alarm?

 > If social engineering, this is spear phishing (the attack uses specific detail) over a voice channel (vishing). It is possible that it uses deep fake technology for voice mimicry. The use of a sophisticated attack for a relatively low-value data asset seems unlikely, however. A fairly safe approach would be to contact the CEO back on a known mobile number.

4.Your company manages marketing data and private information for many high-profile clients. You are hosting an open day for prospective employees. With the possibility of social engineering attacks in mind, what precautions should employees take when the guests are being shown around the office?

 > Employees should specifically be wary of shoulder surfing attempts to observe passwords and the like.
