
Notes: 
  - the term multipartite is used for viruses that use multiple vectors and polymorphic for viruses that can dynamically change or obfuscate their code to evade detection.

# Indicators of Malware-Based Attacks

1.You are troubleshooting a user's workstation. At the computer, an app window displays on the screen claiming that all of your files are encrypted. The app window demands that you make an anonymous payment if you ever want to recover your data. What type of malware has infected the computer?

 > This is some type of ransomware, but it will take more investigation whether it is actually crypto-malware or not.

2.You are recommending different antivirus products to the CEO of small travel services firm. The CEO is confused, because they had heard that Trojans represent the biggest threat to computer security these days. What explanation can you give?

 > While antivirus (A-V) remains a popular marketing description, all current security products worthy of consideration will try to provide protection against a full range of malware and potentially unwanted program (PUP) threats.

3.You are writing a security awareness blog for company CEOs subscribed to your threat platform. Why are backdoors and Trojans different ways of classifying and identifying malware risks?

 > A Trojan means a malicious program masquerading as something else; a backdoor is a covert means of accessing a host or network. A Trojan need not necessarily operate a backdoor and a backdoor can be established by exploits other than using Trojans. The term remote access trojan (RAT) is used for the specific combination of Trojan and backdoor.

4.You are investigating a business email compromise (BEC) incident. The email account of a developer has been accessed remotely over webmail. Investigating the developer's workstation finds no indication of a malicious process, but you do locate an unknown USB extension device attached to one of the rear ports. Is this the most likely attack vector, and what type of malware would it implement?

 > It is likely that the USB device implements a hardware-based keylogger. This would not necessarily require any malware to be installed or leave any trace in the file system.

5.A user's computer is performing extremely slowly. Upon investigating, you find that a process named n0tepad.exe is utilizing the CPU at rates of 80-90%. This is accompanied by continual small disk reads and writes to a temporary folder. Should you suspect malware infection and is any particular class of indicated?

 > Yes, this is malware as the process name is trying to masquerade as a legitimate process. It is not possible to conclusively determine the type without more investigation, but you might initially suspect a crypto-miner/crypto-jacker.

6.Is Cuckoo a type of malware or a security product?

 > Cuckoo is a security product designed to analyze malware as it runs in an isolated sandbox environment.


# Knowledge Based Authentication
