
Notes:
 - If the memory location is invalid or null (perhaps by some malicious process altering the execution environment), this creates a null pointer dereference type of exception, and the process will crash, probably. In some circumstances, this might also allow a threat actor to run arbitrary code. 
 - A race condition is one means of engineering a null pointer dereference exception. Race conditions occur when the outcome from an execution process is directly dependent on the order and timing of certain events, and those events fail to execute in the order and timing intended by the developer. (DirtyCOW)
 - A time of check to time of use (TOCTTOU) race condition occurs when there is a change between when an app checked a resource and when the app used the resource. This change invalidates the check.  
 - Refactoring means that the code performs the same function by using different methods (control blocks, variable types, and so on). Refactoring means that the A-V software may no longer identify the malware by its signature.

# Indicators of Application Attacks

1.Your log shows that the Notepad process on a workstation running as the local administrator account has started an unknown process on an application server running as the SYSTEM account. What type of attack(s) are represented in this intrusion event?

 > The Notepad process has been compromised, possibly using buffer overflow or a DLL/process injection attack. The threat actor has then performed lateral movement and privilege escalation, gaining higher privileges through remote code execution on the application server.

2.How might an integer overflow be used as part of a buffer overflow?

 > The integer value could be used to allocate less memory than a process expects, making a buffer overflow easier to achieve.

3.You are providing security advice and training to a customer's technical team. One asks how they can identify when a buffer overflow occurs. What is your answer?

 > Real-time detection of a buffer overflow is difficult, and is typically only achieved by security monitoring software (antivirus, endpoint detection and response, or user and entity behavior analytics) or by observing the host closely within a sandbox. An unsuccessful attempt is likely to cause the process to crash with an error message. If the attempt is successful, the process is likely to show anomalous behavior, such as starting another process, opening network connections or writing to AutoRun keys in the registry. These indicators can be recorded using logging and system monitoring tools.

4.What is the effect of a memory leak?

 > A process claims memory locations but never releases them, reducing the amount of memory available to other processes. This will damage performance, could prevent other processes from starting, and if left unchecked could crash the OS.

5.How can DLL injection be exploited to hide the presence of malware?

 > Various OS system functions allow one process to manipulate another and force it to load a dynamic link library (DLL). This means that the malware code can be migrated from one process to another, evading detection.

6.Other than endpoint protection software, what resource can provide indicators of pass the hash attacks?

 > These attacks are revealed by use of certain modes of NTLM authentication within the security (audit) log of the source and target hosts. These indicators can be prone to false positives, however, as many services use NTLM authentication legitimately.
