### Domain Hijacking
 - Domain hijacking is an attack where an adversary acquires a domain for a company's trading name or trademark, or perhaps some spelling variation thereof. 
 - In a domain hijacking attack an adversary gains control over the registration of a domain name, allowing the host records to be configured to IP addresses of the attacker's choosing. 
 - This might be accomplished by supplying false credentials to the domain registrar when applying for a new domain name or re-registering an existing one. 
 - An attacker might also be able to exploit the legitimate account used to manage the domain (via a weak password or malware installed on a client computer) or even to compromise the domain registrar's security procedures in some way.


### DNS Poisoning
 - DNS poisoning is an attack that compromises the process by which clients query name servers to locate the IP address for a FQDN(fully qualified domain name).
 - Man in the Middle
   - If the threat actor has access to the same local network as the victim, the attacker can use ARP poisoning to respond to DNS queries from the victim with spoofed replies.
   - A rogue DHCP could be used to configure clients with the address of a rogue DNS resolver.
 - DNS Client Cache Poisoning
   - If an attacker is able to place a false name:IP address mapping in the HOSTS file and effectively poison the DNS cache, he or she will be able to redirect traffic.
   - In UNIX and Linux systems it is stored as /etc/hosts, while in Windows it is placed in %SystemRoot%\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts. 
 - DNS Server Cache Poisoning
   - This can be accomplished by performing DoS against the server that holds the authorized records for the domain, and then spoofing replies to requests from other name servers.
   - Another attack involves getting the victim name server to respond to a recursive query from the attacking host. A recursive query compels the DNS server to query the authoritative server for the answer on behalf of the client. 
