# Security Concerns with General Vulnerability Types


1.You are recommending that a business owner invest in patch management controls for PCs and laptops. What is the main risk from weak patch management procedures on such devices?

 > Vulnerabilities in the OS and applications software such as web browsers and document readers or in PC and adapter firmware can allow threat actors to run malware and gain a foothold on the network.

2.You are advising a business owner on security for a PC running Windows XP. The PC runs process management software that the owner cannot run on Windows 10. What are the risks arising from this, and how can they be mitigated?

 > Windows XP is a legacy platform that is no longer receiving security updates. This means that patch management cannot be used to reduce risks from software vulnerabilities. The workstation should be isolated from other systems to reduce the risk of compromise.

3.As a security solutions provider, you are compiling a checklist for your customers to assess potential weak configuration vulnerabilities, based on the CompTIA Security+ syllabus. From the headings you have added so far, which is missing and what vulnerability does it relate to? Default settings, Unsecured root accounts, Open ports and services, Unsecure protocols, Weak encryption, Errors.

 > Open permissions refers to misconfigured access rights for data folders, network file shares, and cloud storage.

4.You are advising a customer on backup and disaster recovery solutions. The customer is confused between data breaches and data loss and whether the backup solution will protect against both. What explanation can you give?

 > Backup solutions mitigate risks from data loss, where files or information is deleted, corrupted, or otherwise destroyed. Backup does not mitigate risks from data breach, where confidential or private data is stolen (exfiltrated) and made public or sold for criminal profit. Mitigating risks of data breach requires effective secure processing, authorization, and authentication security controls.

5.A system integrator is offering a turnkey solution for customer contact data storage and engagement analytics using several cloud services. Does this solution present any supply chain risks beyond those of the system integrator's consulting company?

 > Yes, the system integrator is proposing the use of multiple vendors (the cloud service providers), with potentially complex issues for collecting, storing, and sharing customer personal data across these vendors. Each company in the supply chain should be assessed for risk and compliance with cybersecurity and privacy standards.
