
# Vulnerability Scanning Techniques

1.You have received an urgent threat advisory and need to configure a network vulnerability scan to check for the presence of a related CVE on your network. What configuration check should you make in the vulnerability scanning software before running the scan?

 > Verify that the vulnerability feed/plug-in/test has been updated with the specific CVE that you need to test for.

2.You have configured a network vulnerability scanner for an engineering company. When running a scan, multiple sensors within an embedded systems network became unresponsive, causing a production shutdown. What alternative method of vulnerability scanning should be used for the embedded systems network?

 > A fully non-intrusive solution should be adopted, such as sniffing traffic using a network tap or mirror port. Using the network traffic to detect vulnerabilities rather than actively probing each device will not cause system stability issues (though there is greater risk of false positive and false negative results).

3.A vulnerability scan reports that a CVE associated with CentOS Linux is present on a host, but you have established that the host is not running CentOS. What type of scanning error event is this?

 > False positive.

4.A small company that you provide security consulting support to has resisted investing in an event management and threat intelligence platform. The CEO has become concerned about an APT risk known to target supply chains within the company's industry sector and wants you to scan their systems for any sign that they have been targeted already. What are the additional challenges of meeting this request, given the lack of investment?

 > Collecting network traffic and log data from multiple sources and then analyzing it manually will require many hours of analyst time. The use of threat feeds and intelligence fusion to automate parts of this analysis effort would enable a much swifter response.

5.What term relates to assessment techniques that avoid alerting threat actors?

 > This can be referred to as maneuver.
