### Network Address Allocation (DHCP)

 - The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides an automatic method for network address allocation. 
 - The key point about DHCP is that only one server should be offering addresses to any one group of hosts. 
 - If a rogue DHCP server is set up, it can perform DoS (as client machines will obtain an incorrect TCP/IP configuration) or be used to snoop network information. 
 - DHCP starvation is a type of DoS attack where a rogue client repeatedly requests new IP addresses using spoofed MAC addresses, with the aim of exhausting the IP address pool.

### DNSSEC (DNS Security Extensions)
 - help to mitigate against spoofing and poisoning attacks by providing a validation process for DNS responses. 
 - With DNSSEC enabled, the authoritative server for the zone creates a "package" of resource records (called an RRset) signed with a private key (the Zone Signing Key). 
 - When another server requests a secure record exchange, the authoritative server returns the package along with its public key, which can be used to verify the signature.

### Secure Directory Services
 -  A directory facilitates authentication and authorization, and it is critical that it be maintained as a highly secure service.
 -  Most directory services are based on the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), running over port 389. 
 
### Time Synchronization
 - Many applications on networks are time dependent and time critical. 
 - The Network Time Protocol (NTP) provides a transport over which to synchronize these time dependent applications. NTP works over UDP on port 123.

### SIMPLE NETWORK MANAGEMENT PROTOCOL SECURITY
 - The Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is a widely used framework for management and monitoring. 
 - SNMP consists of an SNMP monitor and agents.
   - The agent is a process (software or firmware) running on a switch, router, server, or other SNMP-compatible network device.
   - The SNMP monitor (a software program) provides a location from which network activity can be overseen.

# Secure Network Operations Protocols
1.What vulnerabilities does a rogue DHCP server expose users to?
 > Denial of service (providing an invalid address configuration) and spoofing (providing a malicious address configuration—one that points to a malicious DNS, for instance).

2.Why is it vital to ensure the security of an organization's DNS service?
 > DNS resolves domain names. If it were to be corrupted, users could be directed to spoofed websites. Disrupting DNS can also perform denial of service.

3.True or false? The contents of the HOSTS file are irrelevant as long as a DNS service is properly configured.
 > False (probably)—the contents of the HOSTS file are written to the DNS cache on startup. It is possible to edit the registry to prioritize DNS over HOSTS, though.

4.What is DNS server cache poisoning?
 > Corrupting the records of a DNS server to point traffic destined for a legitimate domain to a malicious IP address.

5.True or false? DNSSEC depends on a chain of trust from the root servers down.
 > True.

6.What are the advantages of SASL over LDAPS?
 > The Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) allows a choice of authentication providers and encryption (sealing)/integrity (signing) mechanisms. By contrast, LDAPS uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encrypt traffic, but users still authenticate via simple binding. Also, SASL is the standards-based means of configuring LDAP security.

7.What steps should you take to secure an SNMPv2 service?
 > Configure strong community names and use access control lists to restrict management operations to known hosts.


### Transport Layer Security
 - To implement TLS, a server is assigned a digital certificate signed by some trusted certificate authority (CA). 
 - The certificate proves the identity of the server (assuming that the client trusts the CA) and validates the server's public/private key pair. 
 - The server uses its key pair and the TLS protocol to agree mutually supported ciphers with the client and negotiate an encrypted communications session.

#### FTPS negotiates a SSL/TLS tunnel before excahnge of any FTP commands and uses port 990 for control connection.

### Email Services: Uses two types of protocols:
 - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) - specifies how mail is sent from one system to another.
 - Mailbox protocol - stores messages for users and allows them to download them to client computers or manage them on the server.
 1. STARTTLS - Port 587 - upgrades an existing unsecure connection to use TLS. This is also referred to as explicit TLS or opportunistic TLS.
 2. SMTPS (Secure SMTP) - Port 25 - this establishes the secure connection before any SMTP commands (HELO, for instance) are exchanged. This is also referred to as implicit TLS.
 3. POP3 (Post Office Protocol) - Port 110 - is a mailbox protocol designed to store the messages delivered by SMTP on a server. When the client connects to the mailbox, POP3 downloads the messages to the recipient's email client.
 4. Secure POP (POP3S) - Port 995 - Secure version of POPv3.
 5. IMAP4 (Internet Message Access Protocol v4) - Port 143 - supports permanent connections to a server and connecting multiple clients to the same mailbox simultaneously. It also allows a client to manage mail folders on the server. 
 6. IMAPS (Secure IMAP) - Port 993 - Secure version of IMAP4.

### S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
 - An email encryption standard that adds digital signatures and public key cryptography to traditional MIME communications.

#### Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) - Port 5060 - SIP endpoints can establish communications directly in a peer-to-peer architecture, but it is more typical to use intermediary servers and directory servers. A SIP network may also use gateways and private branch exchange (PBX) appliances to provide an interface between the VoIP network and external telephone and cellular networks.

#### SIPS (Secure SIP) - Port 5061 - uses digital certificates to authenticate the endpoints and establish a TLS tunnel.

#### RTP (Real time Transport Protocol) -  the actual delivery of real-time data 

#### SRTP - Version of RTP secured using TLS.

# Secure Application Protocols
What type of attack against HTTPS aims to force the server to negotiate weak ciphers?
 > A downgrade attack.

2.A client and server have agreed on the use of the cipher suite ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256- GCM-SHA384 for a TLS session. What is the key strength of the symmetric encryption algorithm?
 > 256-bit (AES).

3.What security protocol does SFTP use to protect the connection and which port does an SFTP server listen on by default?
 > Secure Shell (SSH) over TCP port 22.

4.Which port(s) and security methods should be used by a mail client to submit messages for delivery by an SMTP server?
 > Port 587 with STARTTLS (explicit TLS) or port 465 with implicit TLS.

5.When using S/MIME, which key is used to encrypt a message?
 > The recipient's public key (principally). The public key is used to encrypt a symmetric session key and (for performance reasons) the session key does the actual data encoding. The session key and, therefore, the message text can then only be recovered by the recipient, who uses the linked private key to decrypt it.

6.Which protocol protects the contents of a VoIP conversation from eavesdropping?
 > Encrypted VoIP data is carried over the Secure Real time Transport Protocol (SRTP).
