
### Wireless Access Point (WAP) Placement
 - Each WAP is identified by its MAC address, also referred to as its basic service set identifier (BSSID). 
 - Each wireless network is identified by its name, or service set identifier (SSID).

#### Fat WAP - An access point whose firmware contains enough processing logic to be able to function autonomously and handle clients without the use of a wireless controller

#### Thin WAP - one that requires a wireless controller in order to function. 

### Wifi Protected Access
 - version 1 of WPA uses the RC4 stream cipher but adds a mechanism called the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) to make it stronger.
 - WPA2 uses the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cipher with 128-bit keys, deployed within the Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP).

### WPA3
 - Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE)—replaces WPA's 4-way handshake authentication and association mechanism with a protocol based on Diffie-Hellman key agreement.
 - Enhanced Open—enables encryption for the open authentication method.
 - Updated cryptographic protocols—replaces AES CCMP with the AES Galois Counter Mode Protocol (GCMP) mode of operation. Enterprise authentication methods must use 192-bit AES, while personal authentication can use either 128-bit or 192-bit.
 - Management protection frames—mandates use of these to protect against key recovery attacks.

### Easy Connect Method
 - The Easy Connect method, announced alongside WPA3, is intended to replace WPS as a method of securely configuring client devices with the information required to access a Wi-Fi network. 
 - Easy Connect is a brand name for the Device Provisioning Protocol (DPP). 
 - Each participating device must be configured with a public/private key pair. 
 - Easy Connect uses quick response (QR) codes or near field communication (NFC) tags to communicate each device's public key.
 
 #### WPA3 can implement a mode called Wi-Fi Enhanced Open, which uses opportunistic wireless encryption (OWE). OWE uses the Dragonfly handshake to agree ephemeral session keys on joining the network. 
 
 ### Enterprise/IEEE 802.1X Authentication
  - As an alternative to personal authentication, the enterprise authentication method implements IEEE 802.1X to use an Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) mechanism. 
  - 802.1X defines the use of EAP over Wireless (EAPoW) to allow an access point to forward authentication data without allowing any other type of network access. 
  - It is configured by selecting WPA2-Enterprise or WPA3-Enterprise as the security method on the access point.

### Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
 - defines a framework for negotiating authentication mechanisms rather than the details of the mechanisms themselves. 
 - Vendors can write extensions to the protocol to support third-party security devices. 
 - EAP implementations can include smart cards, one-time passwords, biometric identifiers, or simpler username and password combinations.
 - EAP-TLS is one of the strongest types of authentication and is very widely supported. 
 - An encrypted Transport Layer Security (TLS) tunnel is established between the supplicant and authentication server using public key certificates on the authentication server and supplicant.

### Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)
 - an encrypted tunnel is established between the supplicant and authentication server, but PEAP only requires a server-side public key certificate. 
 - The user authentication method (also referred to as the "inner" method) can use either MS-CHAPv2 or EAP-GTC. 
 - The Generic Token Card (GTC) method transfers a token for authentication against a network directory or using a one-time password mechanism.

### EAP Tunneled with TLS (EAP-TTLS)
 - similar to PEAP.
 - The main distinction from PEAP is that EAP-TTLS can use any inner authentication protocol (PAP or CHAP, for instance), while PEAP must use EAP-MSCHAP or EAP-GTC. 

### EAP with Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling (EAP-FAST)
 - is similar to PEAP, but instead of using a certificate to set up the tunnel, it uses a Protected Access Credential (PAC), which is generated for each user from the authentication server's master key. 
 - The problem with EAP-FAST is in distributing (provisioning) the PAC securely to each user requiring access. 
 - The PAC can either be distributed via an out-of-band method or via a server with a digital certificate.

## RADIUS Federation
 - Most implementations of EAP use a RADIUS server to validate the authentication credentials for each user (supplicant). 
 - RADIUS federation means that multiple organizations allow access to one another's users by joining their RADIUS servers into a RADIUS hierarchy or mesh. 

# Secure Wireless Infrastructure
1.True or false? Band selection has a critical impact on all aspects of the security of a wireless network?
 > False—band selection can affect availability and performance but does not have an impact in terms of either confidentiality or integrity.

2.The network manager is recommending the use of "thin" access points to implement the wireless network. What additional appliance or software is required and what security advantages should this have?
 > You need a wireless controller to configure and manage the access points. This makes each access point more tamper-proof as there is no local administration interface. Configuration errors should also be easier to identify.

3.What is a pre-shared key?
 > This is a type of group authentication used when the infrastructure for authenticating securely (via RADIUS, for instance) is not available. The system depends on the strength of the passphrase used for the key.

4.Is WPS a suitable authentication method for enterprise networks?
 > No, an enterprise network will use RADIUS authentication. WPS uses PSK and there are weaknesses in the protocol.

5.You want to deploy a wireless network where only clients with domain-issued digital certificates can join the network. What type of authentication mechanism is suitable?
 > EAP-TLS is the best choice because it requires that both server and client be installed with valid certificates.

6.John is given a laptop for official use and is on a business trip. When he arrives at his hotel, he turns on his laptop and finds a wireless access point with the name of the hotel, which he connects to for sending official communications. He may become a victim of which wireless threat?
 > Evil twin.
