## Mobile Device Deployment Models

 - BYOD (Bring your Own Device) - the mobile device is owned by the employee. 
 - COBO (Corporate Owned, buisness only) - the device is the property of the company and may only be used for company business.
 - COPE (Corporate owned, personally-enabled) - the device is chosen and supplied by the company and remains its property. 
 - CYOD (Choose your own device) - much the same as COPE but the employee is given a choice of device from a list.

## Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM)
 
 - Mobile device management (MDM) - sets device policies for authentication, feature use (camera and microphone), and connectivity. MDM can also allow device resets and remote wipes.
 - Mobile application management (MAM) - sets policies for apps that can process corporate data, and prevents data transfer to personal apps.
 - Unified Endpoint Management (UEM) - Enterprise software for controlling device settings, apps, and corporate data storage on all types of fixed, mobile, and IoT computing devices.

#### Indoor Positioning System (IPS) - works out a device's location by triangulating its proximity to other radio sources, such as cell towers, Wi-Fi access points, and Bluetooth/RFID beacons.

## Geofencing

 - Geofencing is the practice of creating a virtual boundary based on real-world geography. 
 - Geofencing can be a useful tool with respect to controlling the use of camera or video functions or applying context-aware authentication.

## Application Management

 - Apple operates enterprise developer and distribution programs to solve this problem, allowing private app distribution via Apple Business Manager. 
 - Google's Play store has a private channel option, called Managed Google Play. 
 - Both these options allow an EMM/UEM suite to push apps from the private channel to the device. 

# Mobile Device Management
1.What type of deployment model(s) allow users to select the mobile device make and model?
 > Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) and Choose Your Own Device (CYOD).

2.How does VDI work as a mobile deployment model?
 > Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) allows a client device to access a VM. In this scenario, the mobile device is the client device. Corporate data is stored and processed on the VM so there is less chance of it being compromised, even though the client device itself is not fully managed.

3.Company policy requires that you ensure your smartphone is secured from unauthorized access in case it is lost or stolen. To prevent someone from accessing data on the device immediately after it has been turned on, what security control should be used?
 > Screen lock.

4.An employee's car was recently broken into, and the thief stole a company tablet that held a great deal of sensitive data. You've already taken the precaution of securing plenty of backups of that data. What should you do to be absolutely certain that the data doesn't fall into the wrong hands?
 > Remotely wipe the device, also referred to as a kill switch.

5.What is containerization?
 > A mobile app or workspace that runs within a partitioned environment to prevent other (unauthorized) apps from interacting with it.

6.What is the process of sideloading?
 > The user installs an app directly onto the device rather than from an official app store.

7.Why might a company invest in device control software that prevents the use of recording devices within company premises?
 > To hinder physical reconnaissance and espionage.

8.Why is a rooted or jailbroken device a threat to enterprise security?
 > Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) solutions depend on the device user not being able to override their settings or change the effect of the software. A rooted or jailbroken device means that the user could subvert the access controls.

# Secure Mobile Device Connections

1.How might wireless connection methods be used to compromise the security of a mobile device processing corporate data?
 > An attacker might set up some sort of rogue access point (Wi-Fi) or cell tower (cellular) to perform eavesdropping or man-in-the-middle attacks. For Personal Area Network (PAN) range communications, there might be an opportunity for an attacker to run exploit code over the channel.

2.Why might enforcement policies be used to prevent USB tethering when a smartphone is brought to the workplace?
 > This would allow a PC or laptop to connect to the Internet via the smartphone's cellular data connection. This could be used to evade network security mechanisms, such as data loss prevention or content filtering.

3.True or false? A maliciously designed USB battery charger could be used to exploit a mobile device on connection.
 > True (in theory)—though the vector is known to the mobile OS and handset vendors so the exploit is unlikely to be able to run without user authorization.

4.Chuck, a sales executive, is attending meetings at a professional conference that is also being attended by representatives of other companies in his field. At the conference, he uses his smartphone with a Bluetooth headset to stay in touch with clients. A few days after the conference, he finds that competitors' sales representatives are getting in touch with his key contacts and influencing them by revealing what he thought was private information from his email and calendar. Chuck is a victim of which wireless threat?
 > Bluesnarfing.
