## Cloud Security Controls
 
 - Clouds use the same types of security controls as on-premises networks, including identity and access management (IAM), endpoint protection (for virtual instances), resource policies to govern access to data and services, firewalls to filter traffic between hosts, and logging to provide an audit function.


### Application Security and IAM

 -  Application security in the cloud refers both to the software development process and to identity and access management (IAM) features designed to ensure authorized use of applications.

### Secrets Management

 - A cloud service is highly vulnerable to remote access. A failure of credential management is likely to be exploited by malicious actors. You must enforce strong authentication policies to mitigate risks:
   - Do not use the root user for the CSP account for any day-to-day logon activity.
   - Require strong multifactor authentication (MFA) for interactive logons. Use conditional authentication to deny or warn of risky account activity.
   - Principals—user accounts, security groups, roles, and services—can interact with cloud services via CLIs and APIs.

## Cloud Compute Security

 - Cloud provides resources abstracted from physical hardware via one or more layers of virtualization. 
 - The compute component provides process and system memory (RAM) resource as required for a particular workload. 

### Container Security

 - each container is isolated from others through separate namespaces and control groups.
 - Namespaces prevent one container reading or writing processes in another, while control groups ensure that one container cannot overwhelm others in a DoS-type attack.

### API Inspection and Integration

 - Monitoring API usage gives warning if the system is becoming overloaded (ensuring availability) and allows detection of unauthorized usage or attempted usage.
   - Number of requests
   - Latency
   - Error Rates
   - Unauthorized and suspicious endpoints

### Instance Awareness

 - As with on-premises virtualization, it is important to manage instances (virtual machines and containers) to avoid sprawl, where undocumented instances are launched and left unmanaged. 
 - As well as restricting rights to launch instances, you should configure logging and monitoring to track usage.

## Cloud Storage Security

 - Storage profiles will have different performance characteristics for different applications, such as fast SSD-backed storage for databases versus slower HDD-backed media for archiving. 
 - The principal performance metric is the number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) supported.

### Permissions and Resource Policies

 - As with on-premises systems, cloud storage resources must be configured to allow reads and/or writes only from authorized endpoints. 
 - In the cloud, a resource policy acts as the ACL for an object.

### Encryption 

 -  Cloud storage encryption equates to the on-premises concept of full disk encryption (FDE). 
 -  Each storage unit is encrypted using an AES key. 
 -  To read or write the data, the AES key must be available to the VM or container using the storage object. 
 -  The key will be stored in a hardware security module (HSM) within the cloud. 
 -  The HSM and separation of duties policies protect the keys from insider threat.

## High Availability

### Replication

 - Data replication allows businesses to copy data to where it can be utilized most effectively.
 - The terms hot and cold storage refer to how quickly data is retrieved. 
   - Hot storage retrieves data more quickly than cold, but the quicker the data retrieval, the higher the cost. 
 - A database generally needs low-latency, synchronous replication, as a transaction often cannot be considered complete until it has been made on all replicas. 

### High Availability across Zones

 - CSPs offer several tiers of replication representing different high availability service levels:
   - Local Replication
   - Regional Replication
   - Geo-Redundant Replication (GRS)

## Cloud Networking Security

### Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs)

 - a VPC is isolated from other CSP accounts and from other VPCs operating in the same account. 
 - The workload for each VPC is isolated from other VPCs.

### Public and Private Subnets

 -  first an Internet gateway (virtual router) must be attached to the VPC configuration. 
 -  Secondly, the Internet gateway must be configured as the default route for each public subnet. 
 -  If a default route is not configured, the subnet remains private, even if an Internet gateway is attached to the VPC.

## VPC Endpoints

 - A VPC endpoint is a means of publishing a service so that it is accessible by instances in other VPCs using only the AWS internal network and private IP addresses.
 - There are twi types of VPC Endpoints:
   - Gateway Endpoints - A gateway endpoint is used to connect instances in a VPC to the AWS S3 (storage) and DynamoDB (database) services. A gateway endpoint is configured as a route to the service in the VPC's route table.
   - Interface Endpoints - An interface endpoint makes use of AWS's PrivateLink feature to allow private access to custom services

## Cloud Access Security Brokers (CASB)

 - A cloud access security broker (CASB) is enterprise management software designed to mediate access to cloud services by users across all types of devices.
 - Functions:
   - Enable single sign-on authentication and enforce access controls and authorizations from the enterprise network to the cloud provider.
   - Scan for malware and rogue or non-compliant device access.
   - Monitor and audit user and resource activity.
   - Mitigate data exfiltration by preventing access to unauthorized cloud services from managed devices.

### Next-Generation Secure Web Gateway
 - Enterprise networks often make use of secure web gateways (SWG). 
 - An on-premises SWG is a proxy-based firewall, content filter, and intrusion detection/prevention system that mediates user access to Internet sites and services.
 - A Next-Generation SWG combines the functionality of an SWG with that of data loss prevention (DLP) and a CASB to provide a wholly cloud-hosted platform for client access to websites and cloud apps.
 - This supports an architecture defined by Gartner as secure access service edge (SASE).

# Cloud Security Solutions

Describe some key considerations that should be made when hosting data or systems via a cloud solutions provider.
 > Integrate auditing and monitoring procedures and systems with on-premises detection, identify responsibility for implementing security controls (such as patching or backup), identify performance metrics in an SLA, and assess risks to privacy and confidentiality from breaches at the service provider.

2.True or false? The account with which you register for the CSP services is not an account with root privileges.
 > False—this account is the root account and has full privileges. It should not be used for day-to-day administration or configuration.

3.Which security attribute is ensured by monitoring API latency and correcting any problems quickly?
 > This ensures the availability of services.

4.What format is often used to write permissions statements for cloud resource policies?
 > JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).

5.True or false? A customer is limited to creating one VPC per account.
 > False. There are limits to the number of virtual private clouds (VPCs) that can be created, but more than one is allowed.

6.What feature allows you to filter traffic arriving at an instance?
 > This is accomplished by assigning the instance to a security group with the relevant policy configured.

7.What is a cloud access security broker (CASB)?
 > Enterprise management software mediating access to cloud services by users to enforce information and access policies and audit usage.
