## Admin/Root Accounts

 - On Windows networks, you also need to distinguish between local administrators and domain administrators. 
 - The scope of a local administrator's privileges is restricted to the machine hosting the account. 
 - Domain administrators can have privileges over any machine joined to the domain.

# Identity and Account Types
 
1.You are consulting with a company about a new approach to authenticating users. You suggest there could be cost savings and better support for multifactor authentication (MFA) if your employees create accounts with a cloud provider. That allows the company's staff to focus on authorizations and privilege management. What type of service is the cloud vendor performing?
 > The cloud vendor is acting as the identity provider.

2.What is the process of ensuring accounts are only created for valid users, only assigned the appropriate privileges, and that the account credentials are known only to the valid user?
 > Onboarding.

3.What is the policy that states users should be allocated the minimum sufficient permissions?
 > Least privilege.

4.What is a SOP?
 > A standard operating procedure (SOP) is a step-by-step listing of the actions that must be completed for any given task.

5.What type of organizational policies ensure that at least two people have oversight of a critical business process?
 > Shared authority, job rotation, and mandatory enforced vacation/holidays.

6.Recently, attackers were able to compromise the account of a user whose employment had been terminated a week earlier. They used this account to access a network share and delete important files. What account vulnerability enabled this attack?
 > While it's possible that lax password requirements and incorrect privileges may have contributed to the account compromise, the most glaring problem is that the terminated employee's account wasn't disabled. Since the account was no longer being used, it should not have been left active for a malicious user to exploit.

7.For what type of account would interactive logon be disabled?
 > Interactive logon refers to starting a shell. Service accounts do not require this type of access. Default superuser accounts, such as Administrator and root, may also be disabled, or limited to use in system recovery or repair.

8.What type of files most need to be audited to perform third-party credential management?
 > SSH and API keys are often unsecurely embedded in computer code or uploaded mistakenly to repositories alongside code. Also, managing shared credentials can be difficult, and many sites resort to storing them in a shared spreadsheet.

# Account Policies
1.What container would you use if you want to apply a different security policy to a subset of objects within the same domain?
 > Organization Unit (OU).

2.Why might forcing users to change their password every month be counterproductive?
 > More users would forget their passwords, try to select unsecured ones, or write them down/record them in a non-secure way (like a sticky note).

3.What is the name of the policy that prevents users from choosing old passwords again?
 > Enforce password history.

4.In what two ways can an IP address be used for context-based authentication?
 > An IP address can represent a logical location (subnet) on a private network. Most types of public IP addresses can be linked to a geographical location, based on information published by the registrant that manages that block of IP address space.

5.How does accounting provide non-repudiation?
 > A user's actions are logged on the system. Each user is associated with a unique computer account. As long as the user's authentication is secure and the logging system is tamper-proof, they cannot deny having performed the action.

6.Which information resource is required to complete usage auditing?
 > Usage events must be recorded in a log. Choosing which events to log will be guided by an audit policy.

7.What is the difference between locked and disabled accounts?
 > An account enters a locked state because of a policy violation, such as an incorrect password being entered incorrectly. Lockout is usually applied for a limited duration. An account is usually disabled manually, using the account properties. A disabled account can only be re-enabled manually.

