
## ISO 27K

 - The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has produced a cybersecurity framework in conjunction with the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).
 - ISO 27001 is part of an overall 27000 series of information security standards, also known as 27K. 
 - Of these, 27002 classifies security controls, 27017 and 27018 reference cloud security, and 27701 focuses on personal data and privacy.

## ISO 31K

 - ISO 31K is an overall framework for enterprise risk management (ERM). 
 - ERM considers risks and opportunities beyond cybersecurity by including financial, customer service, competition, and legal liability factors. 
 - ISO 31K establishes best practices for performing risk assessments.

## Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)

 - produces various resources to assist cloud service providers (CSP) in setting up and delivering secure cloud platforms. 
 - Security Guidance
 - Enterprise reference architecture
 - Cloud controls matrix

## Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) Service Organization Control (SOC)
 
 - SSAE are audit specifications developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 
 - These audits are designed to assure consumers that service providers—notably cloud providers, but including any type of hosted or third-party service—meet professional standards.
 - Service Organization Control (SOC2) 
   - evaluates the internal controls implemented by the service provider to ensure compliance with Trust Services Criteria (TSC) when storing and processing customer data. 
   - TSC refers to security, confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy properties. 
   - An SOC2 Type I report assesses the system design, while a Type II report assesses the ongoing effectiveness of the security architecture over a period of 6-12 months. 
 - SOC3 - a less detailed report certifying compliance with SOC2. SOC3 reports can be freely distributed.

## Center for Internet Security (CIS)

 - The CIS-RAM (Risk Assessment Method) can be used to perform an overall evaluation of security posture
 - CIS also produces benchmarks for different aspects of cybersecurity.


# Security Control and Framework Types

1.You have implemented a secure web gateway that blocks access to a social networking site. How would you categorize this type of security control?
 > It is a technical type of control (implemented in software) and acts as a preventive measure.

2.A company has installed motion-activated floodlighting on the grounds around its premises. What class and function is this security control?
 > It would be classed as a physical control and its function is both detecting and deterring.

3.A firewall appliance intercepts a packet that violates policy. It automatically updates its Access Control List to block all further packets from the source IP. What TWO functions is the security control performing?
 > Preventive and corrective.

4.If a security control is described as operational and compensating, what can you determine about its nature and function?
 > That the control is enforced by a person rather than a technical system, and that the control has been developed to replicate the functionality of a primary control, as required by a security standard.

5.If a company wants to ensure it is following best practice in choosing security controls, what type of resource would provide guidance?
 > A cybersecurity framework and/or benchmark and secure configuration guides.

