## Acceptable Use Policy

 - A policy that governs employees' use of company equipment and Internet services. ISPs may also apply AUPs to their customers.
 - the policy will forbid the use of equipment to defraud, defame, or to obtain illegal material. 
 - It will prohibit the installation of unauthorized hardware or software and explicitly forbid actual or attempted snooping of confidential data that the employee is not authorized to access.

## Code of Conduct and Social Media Analysis

 - Professional behavior depends on basic ethical standards, such as honesty and fairness. Some professions may have developed codes of ethics to cover difficult situations; some businesses may also have a code of ethics to communicate the values it expects its employees to practice.
 
# Importance of Personnel Policies

1.Your company has been the victim of several successful phishing attempts over the past year. Attackers managed to steal credentials from these attacks and used them to compromise key systems. What vulnerability contributed to the success of these social engineers, and why?
 > A lack of proper user training directly contributes to the success of social engineering attempts. Attackers can easily trick users when those users are unfamiliar with the characteristics and ramifications of such deception.

2.Why should an organization design role-based training programs?
 > Employees have different levels of technical knowledge and different work priorities. This means that a "one size fits all" approach to security training is impractical.

3.You are planning a security awareness program for a manufacturer. Is a pamphlet likely to be sufficient in terms of resources?
 > Using a diversity of training techniques will boost engagement and retention. Practical tasks, such as phishing simulations, will give attendees more direct experience. Workshops or computer-based training will make it easier to assess whether the training has been completed.

## Third-Party Risk Management

#### Supply Chain - end-to-end process of supplying, manufacturing, distributing, and finally releasing goods and services to a customer. Establishing a trusted supply chain for computer equipment essentially means denying malicious actors the time or resources to modify the assets being supplied.

#### Vendor - this means a supplier of commodity goods and services, possibly with some level of customization and direct support.

#### Buisness Partner - this implies a closer relationship where two companies share quite closely aligned goals and marketing opportunities.

### End of Life Systems

 - When a manufacturer discontinues sales of a product, it enters an end of life (EOL) phase in which support and availability of spares and updates become more limited.
 - An end of service life (EOSL) system is one that is no longer supported by its developer or vendor.

## Organizational Security Agreements

 - Memorandum of understanding (MOU)—A preliminary or exploratory agreement to express an intent to work together. MOUs are usually intended to be relatively informal and not to act as binding contracts. MOUs almost always have clauses stating that the parties shall respect confidentiality, however.
 - Business partnership agreement (BPA)—While there are many ways of establishing business partnerships, the most common model in IT is the partner agreements that large IT companies (such as Microsoft and Cisco) set up with resellers and solution providers.
 - Nondisclosure agreement (NDA)—Legal basis for protecting information assets. NDAs are used between companies and employees, between companies and contractors, and between two companies. If the employee or contractor breaks this agreement and does share such information, they may face legal consequences. NDAs are useful because they deter employees and contractors from violating the trust that an employer places in them.
 - Service level agreement (SLA)—A contractual agreement setting out the detailed terms under which a service is provided.
 - Measurement systems analysis (MSA)—quality management processes, such as Six Sigma, make use of quantified analysis methods to determine the effectiveness of a system.  A measurement systems analysis (MSA) is a means of evaluating the data collection and statistical methods used by a quality management process to ensure they are robust. This might be an onboarding requirement when partnering with enterprise companies or government agencies.

