## Risk Types

 - External - External threat actors are one highly-visible source of risk. The most critical type of impact is one that could lead to loss of life or critical injury.
 - Internal - Internal risks come from assets and workflows that are owned and managed by your organization
 - Multiparty - Multiparty risk usually arises from supplier relationships. If a critical event disrupts a supplier or customer, then your own organization will suffer. 
 - Intellectual Property (IP) Theft - Intellectual property (IP) is data of commercial value that is owned by the organization. This can mean copyrighted material for retail (software, written work, video, and music) and product designs and patents.
 - Software Compliance/Licensing - Breaking the terms of athe end user licensing agreement (EULA) that imposes conditions on installation of the software can expose the computer owner to substantial fines.
 - Legacy Systems - Legacy systems are a source of risk because they no longer receive security updates and because the expertise to maintain and troubleshoot them is a scarce resource.

## Quantitative Risk Assessment

**Quantitative risk assessment aims to assign concrete values to each risk factor.**
 - Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)—The amount that would be lost in a single occurrence of the risk factor. This is determined by multiplying the value of the asset by an Exposure Factor (EF). EF is the percentage of the asset value that would be lost.
 - Annualized Loss Expectancy (ALE)—The amount that would be lost over the course of a year. This is determined by multiplying the SLE by the Annualized Rate of Occurrence (ARO).

## Qualitative Risk Assessment

 - focused on identifying significant risk factors. 
 - The qualitative approach seeks out people's opinions of which risk factors are significant. 
 - Assets and risks may be placed in simple categories. 

### Risk Acceptance

 - Risk acceptance (or tolerance) means that no countermeasures are put in place either because the level of risk does not justify the cost or because there will be unavoidable delay before the countermeasures are deployed. 
 - In this case, you should continue to monitor the risk (as opposed to ignoring it). 

### Residual Risk and Risk Appetite

 - Where inherent risk is the risk before mitigation, residual risk is the likelihood and impact after specific mitigation, transference, or acceptance measures have been applied. 
 - Risk appetite is a strategic assessment of what level of residual risk is tolerable. 
 - Risk appetite is broad in scope. 
 - Where risk acceptance has the scope of a single system, risk appetite has a project- or institution-wide scope. 
 - Risk appetite is constrained by regulation and compliance.

### Control Risk

 - Control risk is a measure of how much less effective a security control has become over time. 
 - Control risk can also refer a security control that was never effective in mitigating inherent risk. 
 - This illustrates the point that risk management is an ongoing process, requiring continual re-assessment and re-prioritization. 

#### A risk register is a document showing the results of risk assessments in a comprehensible format. The register may resemble the heat map risk matrix shown earlier with columns for impact and likelihood ratings, date of identification, description, countermeasures, owner/route for escalation, and status. 

# Risk Management Processes and Concepts

1.What areas of a business or workflow must you examine to assess multiparty risk?
 > You need to examine supply chain dependencies to identify how problems with one or more suppliers would impact your business. You also need to examine customer relationships to determine what liabilities you have in the event of an incident impacting your ability to supply a product or service and what impact disruption of important customer accounts would have, should cyber incidents disrupt their business.

2.What risk type arises from shadow IT?
 > Shadow IT is the deployment of hardware, software, or cloud services without the sanction of the system owner (typically the IT department). The system owner will typically be liable for software compliance/licensing risks.

3.What metric(s) could be used to make a quantitative calculation of risk due to a specific threat to a specific function or asset?
 > Single Loss Expectancy (SLE) or Annual Loss Expectancy (ALE). ALE is SLE multiplied by ARO (Annual Rate of Occurrence).

4.What factors determine the selection of security controls in terms of an overall budget?
 > The risk (as determined by impact and likelihood) compared to the cost of the control. This metric can be calculated as Return on Security Investment (ROSI).

5.What type of risk mitigation option is offered by purchasing insurance?
 > Risk transference.

6.What is a risk register?
 > A document highlighting the results of risk assessments in an easily comprehensible format (such as a heat map or "traffic light" grid). Its purpose is for department managers and technicians to understand risks associated with the workflows that they manage.

7.What is control risk?
 > Control risk arises when a security control is ineffective at mitigating the impact and/or likelihood of the risk factor it was deployed to mitigate. The control might not work as hoped, or it might become less effective over time.
