## Information Life Cycle Management

 - Creation/collection—data may be generated by an employee or automated system, or it may be submitted by a customer or supplier. At this stage, the data needs to be classified and tagged.
 - Distribution/use—data is made available on a need to know basis for authorized uses by authenticated account holders and third parties.
 - Retention—data might have to be kept in an archive past the date when it is still used for regulatory reasons.
 - Disposal—when it no longer needs to be used or retained, media storing data assets must be sanitized to remove any remnants. 

## Data Roles and Responsibilties

**A data governance policy describes the security controls that will be applied to protect data at each stage of its life cycle. There are important institutional governance roles for oversight and management of information assets within the life cycle:**

 - Data owner—a senior (executive) role with ultimate responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information asset. The owner is responsible for labeling the asset (such as determining who should have access and determining the asset's criticality and sensitivity) and ensuring that it is protected with appropriate controls (access control, backup, retention, and so forth).
 - Data steward—this role is primarily responsible for data quality. This involves tasks such as ensuring data is labeled and identified with appropriate metadata and that data is collected and stored in a format and with values that comply with applicable laws and regulations.
 - Data custodian—this role handles managing the system on which the data assets are stored. This includes responsibility for enforcing access control, encryption, and backup/recovery measures.
 - Data Privacy Officer (DPO)—this role is responsible for oversight of any personally identifiable information (PII) assets managed by the company. The privacy officer ensures that the processing, disclosure, and retention of PII complies with legal and regulatory frameworks.
 - Data controller—the entity responsible for determining why and how data is stored, collected, and used and for ensuring that these purposes and means are lawful. 
 - Data processor—an entity engaged by the data controller to assist with technical collection, storage, or analysis tasks.

## Privacy Notices

 - Informed consent means that the data must be collected and processed only for the stated purpose, and that purpose must be clearly described to the user in plain language, not legalese. 
 - This consent statement is referred to as a privacy notice. 
 - Purpose Limitation
   - In data protection, the principle that personal information can be collected and processed only for a stated purpose to which the subject has consented.

## Impact Assessments

 -  A data protection impact assessment is a process designed to identify the risks of collecting and processing personal data in the context of a business workflow or project and to identify mechanisms that mitigate those risks.

## Privacy Breaches and Data Breaches

### Organizational Consequences

 - Reputation damage—data breaches cause widespread negative publicity, and customers are less likely to trust a company that cannot secure its information assets.
 - Identity theft—if the breached data is exploited to perform identity theft, the data subject may be able to sue for damages.
 - Fines—legislation might empower a regulator to levy fines. These can be fixed sum or in the most serious cases a percentage of turnover.
 - IP theft—loss of company data can lead to loss of revenue. This typically occurs when copyright material—unreleased movies and music tracks—is breached. The loss of patents, designs, trade secrets, and so on to competitors or state actors can also cause commercial losses, especially in overseas markets where IP theft may be difficult to remedy through legal action.

## Privacy Enhancing Technologies

 - Data Minimization - In data protection, the principle that only necessary and sufficient personal information can be collected and processed for the stated purpose.
 - Pseudo-anonymization - Removing personal information from a data set to make identification of individuals difficult, even if the data set is combined with other sources.
 - Data Masking - A deidentification method where generic or placeholder labels are substituted for real data while preserving the structure or format of the original data.
 - Tokenization - A deidentification method where a unique token is substituted for real data.
 - Anonymization
